Two households, both alike in dignity,
In fair Verona, where we lay our scene,
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny.
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life;
Whose misadventured piteous overthrows
Do with their death bury their parents' strife.
The fearful passage of their death-mark'd
love,
And the continuance of their parents' rage,
Which, but their children's end, nought could remove,
Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage;
The which if you with patient ears attend,
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.

O Romeo, Romeo! wherefore
art thou Romeo?
Deny thy father, and refuse thy name;
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
And I’ll no longer be a Capulet. 
Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this? 
’Tis but thy name that is my enemy;
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
What’s Montague? it is nor hand, nor foot,
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
Belonging to a man. O! be some other name:
What’s in a name? that which we call a rose
By any other name would smell as sweet;
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call’d,
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
Without that title. Romeo, doff
thy name;
And for that name, which is no part of thee,
Take all myself.

I take thee at thy word.
Call me but love, and I’ll be new baptiz’d;
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.

What man art thou, that, thus be-screen’d in night,
So stumblest on my counsel?

By a name
I know not how to tell thee who I am:
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
Because it is an enemy to thee:
Had I it written, I would tear the word.

My ears have not yet drunk a hundred words
Of that tongue’s uttering, yet I know the sound:
Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague? 
Neither, fair maid, if either thee dislike

How cam’st thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
And the place death, considering who thou art,
If any of my kinsmen
find thee here.

With love’s light wings did I o’erperch these walls;
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
And what love can do that dares love attempt;
Therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me. 

O me, what fray was here?
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
Here’s much to do with hate, but more with love.

I fear too early, for my mind misgives;
Some consequence, yet hanging in the stars,
Shall bitterly begin. 

O she doth teach the torches to burn bright.
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
As a rich jewel in an Ethiope’s ear.

But soft, what light through yonder window breaks?
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.

With love’s light wings did I o’erperch these walls,
For stony limits cannot hold love out.

O sweet Juliet
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
And in my temper softened valor’s steel!

Let’s talk; it is not day.

I defy you, stars!

My only love sprung from my only hate
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!

What’s Montague? It is nor hand nor foot,
Nor arm nor face nor any other part
Belonging to a man. Oh, be some other name!
What’s in a name? That which we call a rose
By any other word would smell as sweet.

My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
The more I have, for both are infinite.

Hist, Romeo, hist! O for a falconer’s voice
To lure this tassel-gentle back again.

Come, gentle night, come, loving black-browed night,
Give me my Romeo, and when I shall die,
Take him and cut him out in little stars. 

So tedious is this day
As is the night before some festival
To an impatient child that hath new robes
And may not wear them. 

O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
Methinks I see thee now, thou art so low,
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb.

I will kiss thy lips.
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them
To make me die with a restorative. 

I will push Montague’s men from the wall and thrust his maids to the wall

now art thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature, for this drivelling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.

Come, gentle night, come, loving black-browed night,
Give me my Romeo, and when I shall die,
Take him and cut him out in little stars

Alas, that love, whose view is muffled still,
Should without eyes see pathways to his will

My only love sprung from my only hate,
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
Prodigious birth of love is it to me
That I must love a loathed enemy.

With love’s light wings did I o’erperch these walls,
For stony limits cannot hold love out

My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
The more I have, for both are infinite. 

O, then I see Queen Mab hath been with you. . . .
She is the fairies’ midwife, and she comes
In shape no bigger than an agate stone
On the forefinger of an alderman,
Drawn with a team of little atomi
Athwart men’s noses as they lie asleep.

From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
A pair of star-crossed lovers take their life,
Whose misadventured piteous overthrows
Doth with their death bury their parents’ strife. . . .

O, I am fortune’s fool! . . .

